announces the end-of-life plan for Business Intelligence and Reporting Tools (BIRT) forITSMandIS. We recommend that you plan to transition to Dashboards for your reporting needs.

**Important**

While every effort is made to provide accurate, forward-looking guidance on product direction to assist you with your buying and planning decisions, cannot guarantee that intentions stated as follows are final and binding.

Related topics

[Support-information](https://docs.bmc.com/xwiki/bin/view/Service-Management/IT-Service-Management/BMC-Helix-ITSM/itsm254/Troubleshooting/Support-information/)

[Deprecated-and-discontinued-features](https://docs.bmc.com/xwiki/bin/view/Service-Management/IT-Service-Management/BMC-Helix-ITSM/itsm254/Release-notes-and-notices/Deprecated-and-discontinued-features/)

## Background

BIRT is a module ofITSM, (earlier known as Remedy IT Service Management Suite) and delivers in-application ITSM reporting capabilities as a part of the standard ITSM user licenses. You might have used BIRT to develop reports and dashboards forITSMapplications or applications created by using IS.

## Statement of direction

Starting with version 25.4.00, plans the end of life of BIRT in ITSM applications and applications developed by using IS.

To view and create reports, recommends that all customers use Dashboards or shared consoles in ITSM. Dashboards offers a unified reporting and dashboard experience across all service and operations management solutions.

To help you with a smooth transition to Dashboards, we plan to deliver relevant documentation and videos that explain the deployment of Dashboards.

**Important**

Dashboards does not deliver a one-to-one replacement for all BIRT features.

## Transition period

will use the following timelines to complete the transition:

* Starting with version 25.2.00, users can no longer create new web reports. However, they can continue to edit and access existing reports. To create new reports, they must use Dashboards.
* From version 25.3.00, users can no longer print reports by using the Print button from ticket forms. However, they can continue to print the reports from the report console.
* Starting with version 25.4.00, support for all BIRT reports will end.

You can continue using BIRT reports to view and edit existing reports until you upgrade to version 25.4.00; you cannot create new reports. However, support will no longer be available for BIRT reports.

## FAQ for end-of-life of BIRT

<details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">By what date will BIRT reach end of life</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p><span>We plan to stop distributing and supporting BIRT starting from version 25.4.00. This applies to using BIRT with ’s Service Management products such as<span>ITSM</span>and applications developed by using IS.</span></p></div></details><details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">Which licensed products and services are affected?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p>The BIRT capability is licensed by Custom Applications - Reporting User (SaaS), and the deprecation of BIRT deprecation affects the following products:</p><ul><li><span><span>ITSM</span>(SaaS)</span></li><li><span><span>ITSM</span>(On-premises)</span></li></ul></div></details><details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">My company is using BIRT as SaaS service with ITSM SaaS. What changes will we experience after version 25.4.00?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p><span>Starting from version 25.4.00, will no longer provide BIRT as a service as a part of<span>ITSM</span>(SaaS).</span></p></div></details><details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">My company is using BIRT with ITSM On-premises. What changes will we experience from version 25.4.00?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p><span>Starting from version 25.4.00, will no longer provide BIRT (including hotfixes or patches) as a part of<span>ITSM</span>and<span>IS</span>, nor provide support for BIRT.</span></p></div></details><details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">Will existing BIRT On-premises installations stop working?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p><span>No. Existing On-premises deployments of BIRT will continue to work after reaching the end-of-life date.</span></p><p><span>However, you won’t get any more support (including hotfixes or patches), and you will not be able to download the BIRT software or update the BIRT license key. The solution continues to work until the license key expires.</span></p></div></details><details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">Should we keep our ITSM BIRT implementation going?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p><span>Even though will continue to support BIRT until version 25.3.02, we strongly recommend that you start using Dashboards f</span><span>or any reporting needs.</span></p></div></details>

## FAQ for Dashboards

<details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">Where can we learn about Dashboards?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p>The following information is available about Dashboards:</p><ul><li>Online documentation—<span class="wikilink"><a href="https://docs.bmc.com/xwiki/bin/view/Helix-Common-Services/Dashboards-Reports/BMC-Helix-Dashboards/BHD243/" shape="rect">Dashboards</a></span></li><li>Videos (YouTube)—<span class="wikiexternallink"><a href="https://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=bmc+helix+dashboards" shape="rect">Dashboards video playlist</a></span></li><li>Webinars—<span class="wikiexternallink"><a href="https://community.bmc.com/s/news/aA33n000000XfcsCAC/connect-with-bmc-helix-itsm-bmc-helix-dashboards-webinar" shape="rect">Connect with ITSM and Dashboards</a></span></li></ul></div></details><details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">Why is Dashboards a better solution for customers?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p>Dashboards is a modern reporting and dashboard solution for customers based on the widely used Grafana visualization technology. Some of the key features of Dashboards are as follows:</p><ul><li>A single reporting and dashboard solution for<span><span>ITSM</span></span>. Dashboards collect data from multiple Service Management and IT Operations Management solutions and several external data sources through Grafana connectors and display them in cross-solution dashboards.</li><li>Delivers out-of-the-box dashboards and reports for solutions, which so far did not have any reporting capability or for which the previous reporting options were limited to a few canned reports in a proprietary technology (DWP).</li><li>Superior visualization capabilities and better performance than many currently available modules, leading to a much better overall customer experience.</li><li>Provides better support experience with Dashboards, because has more control over the solution design.</li></ul></div></details><details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">Is Dashboards available for our on-premises deployments?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p>The support for On-premises deployments of Dashboards is available from the 21.3 release.</p><p>For more information, see<span class="wikilink"><a href="https://docs.bmc.com/xwiki/bin/view/IT-Operations-Management/On-Premises-Deployment/BMC-Helix-IT-Operations-Management-Deployment/itomdeploy213/" shape="rect">IT Operations Management deployment 21.3</a></span>.</p></div></details><details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">We are a licensed ITSM customer, but we only use the IS platform to develop custom applications. Can we use the new Dashboards capabilities?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p><span>Dashboards are available to anyone who is a licensed user of<span>ITSM</span>or for<span>IS</span>, which includes. Such customers can use Dashboards for report and dashboard use cases for their custom applications developed by using Developer Studio or IS.</span></p></div></details><details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">Can we run Dashboards with previous versions of ITSM?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p><span>No. Dashboards was first introduced with<span>ITSM</span>version 21.02. Customers need to upgrade the entire<span>ITSM</span>stack to version 21.02 or later to use the Dashboards capabilities.</span></p></div></details><details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">Can SaaS customers use the Dashboards functionality?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p><span>After you upgrade to</span><span><span>IS</span></span><span>version 21.03 or later, Dashboards will be available to</span><span><span>ITSM</span></span><span>customers for both on-premises and SaaS.</span></p></div></details><details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">Which solutions are integrated with Dashboards?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><ul><li><span><span>ITSM</span></span>(including<span>ITSM: Smart IT</span>, ITSM Insights, and<span>CMDB</span>)</li><li>Business Workflows(BWF)</li><li><span>DWP</span>(DWP)</li><li><span><span>IS</span></span>(including AR System and IS) and custom applications built on<span><span>IS</span></span></li><li><span>Virtual Agent</span></li><li>Live Chat</li><li>Operations Management</li><li>Continuous Optimization</li><li>Automation Console</li><li>Cloud Security</li><li>Remediate</li></ul></div></details>

## FAQ for technical transition to Dashboards

<details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">Does offer a migration tool to migrate reports from BIRT to Dashboards?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p>No, there is no tool for migration. We recommend customers review their BIRT reports and use this change as an opportunity to clean up their reports.</p><p>Develop reports afresh in Dashboards only if they are routinely required. With recent features like Visual Query Builder and Reporting Metadata Studio, you can develop dashboards using a drag-and-drop interface.</p></div></details><details class="confluence-expand-macro panel panel-default"><summary><span class="panel-title"><span class="title-text">What transition services are available to help us transition from BIRT to Dashboards?</span></span></summary><div class="panel-body"><p><span>Global Services or Partners can provide services to assist you in transitioning from BIRT to Dashboards. These paid services are optional and aimed at accelerating customer adoption of Dashboards and the content migration from BIRT to Dashboards.</span></p><p><span>Contact your Account Manager for more details on the available packages.</span></p></div></details>